# 100 Days Of Code - Log

## Day 62: February 28, 2018 - Wednesday
**Today's Progress:**  Found out that I need to have surgery soon and also lost access to my DataCamp course somehow.  Need to take a break from 100DaysOfCode to get this figured out.

**Thoughts:**  I may be on break...but it's not the end.  I love this Data Science shit.  I'll be back and ready for more soon.

**Link(s) to work:**
1. []()
---

## Day 59 thru 61: February 25 thru 27, 2018 - Sunday thru Tuesday
**Today's Progress:**  Progress on ch 4 of 5 - Manipulating DataFrames with pandas - DataCamp

**Thoughts:**  Wish I had more time.  Chipping away at the course when time allows but it's been a very busy few days 

**Link(s) to work:**
1. [day 59](https://github.com/BrianLeip/Data-Science-Intensive-Springboard/commit/f1b6393fec03284b024148592f8f44f08699fe44)
1. [day 60](https://github.com/BrianLeip/Data-Science-Intensive-Springboard/commit/a0a493ab0427a350d1e583d8aa6fd66a49f038c8)
1. [day 61](https://github.com/BrianLeip/Data-Science-Intensive-Springboard/commit/4d1e5fa84e664310e48a388cc978ed43ccd27f30)
---

## Day 58: February 24, 2018 - Saturday
**Today's Progress:**  Rather than rushing forward to complete example and example, I went back and recreated the first 4 example problems from ch 4 in Manipulating DataFrames with pandas.  

**Thoughts:**  Things are starting to get more and more complex and if I just rush through then I won't understand any of it and then what's the point.  So this was a deep dive into using groupby, running statistics like mean on the groups, using .agg() to aggregate data by sum, mean, and even functions like the spread between max and min.  I recreated all the DataCamp examples from scratch in Jupyter, imported the csv files, created dataFrames, etc to make sure I was really getting it.  A lot of this looked very similar to Pivot tables in Excel so I recreated example 4-04 in excel and compared results.  Very similar, but Python has more flexibility and more power at the cost of being more complex.  All in all really interesting stuff.

**Link(s) to work:**
1. [Extensive review of first 4 examples in ch 4 - Manipulating DataFrames with pandas - DataCamp](https://github.com/BrianLeip/Data-Science-Intensive-Springboard/commit/7245cc1ed7527a840f95da781d86572e4649989a)
---

## Day 56 & 57: February 22 & 23, 2018 - Thursday & Friday
**Today's Progress:**  Progress on ch 4 of 5 - Manipulating DataFrames with pandas - DataCamp

**Thoughts:**  Busy couple days.  On Friday worked from 9am until 1:30am

**Link(s) to work:**
1. [Progress on ch 4 of 5 - Manipulating DataFrames with pandas - DataCamp](https://github.com/BrianLeip/Data-Science-Intensive-Springboard/commit/9244aae46abf19c4193275d1a54f6e1b2a2d0c0a)
2. [Progress on ch 4 of 5 - Manipulating DataFrames with pandas - DataCamp](https://github.com/BrianLeip/Data-Science-Intensive-Springboard/commit/a76e7d060a2023ec4323b5353b5a17faa112ed98)
---

## Day 55: February 21, 2018 - Wednesday
**Today's Progress:**  House Price Prediction Model using Data Science - DevMasters live coding session.  We used Jupyter notebooks, Python, pandas, matplotlib, and scikit tools on a set of housing data from Kaggle to predict housing prices.  For sake of time we only used 1 feature to predict price: square footage of the house

**Thoughts:**  I was reluctant to come to this meetup but really glad that I did.  It combined a lot of the tools that I've been learning in the Springboard course and with DataCamp, but applied to a real problem and using statistics, and getting actual results.  Using the tools you've learned on an actual project is **hugely** important in the learning process.  The Springboard course has us on a treadmill of learning new material after new material, but stopping to use the knowledge on an actual problem is really important for actually putting the individual pieces together and retaining the knowledge.

**Link(s) to work:**
1. [House Price Prediction Model using Data Science - DevMasters live coding session](https://github.com/BrianLeip/HousePricePredictionModel/commits/master)
---

## Day 54: February 20, 2018 - Tuesday
**Today's Progress:**  Progress on ch 4 of 5 - Manipulating DataFrames with pandas - DataCamp

**Thoughts:**  Not a lot of time to code today but got some done

**Link(s) to work:**
1. [Progress on ch 4 of 5 - Manipulating DataFrames with pandas - DataCamp](https://github.com/BrianLeip/Data-Science-Intensive-Springboard/commit/d1374b2d9cbfe6adeae80c02493469bdcc9cdfb5)
---

## Day 53: February 19, 2018 - Monday
**Today's Progress:**  Finished ch 3 of 5 - Manipulating DataFrames with pandas - DataCamp.  

**Thoughts:**  I will need to spend more time with .pivot, .melt and .pivot_table to better understand them. 

**Link(s) to work:**
1. [Finished ch 3 of 5 - Manipulating DataFrames with pandas - DataCamp](https://github.com/BrianLeip/Data-Science-Intensive-Springboard/commit/b1f97b28ccba44899addd659258d007f08995ea8)
---

## Day 51 & 52: February 17 & 18, 2018 - Sat & Sun
**Today's Progress:**  Progress on ch 3 of 5 - Manipulating DataFrames with pandas - DataCamp.

**Thoughts:**  Had a lot of career / accounting / job / contract related responsibilities that took priority the last 2 days but still getting some coding in.

**Link(s) to work:**
1. [Progress on ch 3 of 5 - Manipulating DataFrames with pandas - DataCamp](https://github.com/BrianLeip/Data-Science-Intensive-Springboard/commit/f2e640e3552522b3e056a9f4fb043f34a199e650)
2. [Progress on ch 3 of 5 - Manipulating DataFrames with pandas - DataCamp](https://github.com/BrianLeip/Data-Science-Intensive-Springboard/commit/769b2147984823760bbd42676592f73763119227)
---

## Day 50: February 16, 2018 - Friday
**Today's Progress:**  Finished ch 2 of 5 - Manipulating DataFrames with pandas - DataCamp.  Discussed course pause with Springboard while still continuing progress and resuming with new mentor when my schedule frees up.

**Thoughts:**  Hit the halfway mark to 100 days!  It's amazing how forming positive habits can have a huge effect on your productivity and accomplishments and take on a momentum of their own.  I'm loving it so far, proud that I stuck with it through extremely busy days, and going to keep it rolling.

**Link(s) to work:**
1. [Finished ch 2 of 5 - Manipulating DataFrames with pandas - DataCamp](https://github.com/BrianLeip/Data-Science-Intensive-Springboard/commit/f85d28abfed3f7497ac2245c6d118bf7eedd2982)
---

## Day 49: February 15, 2018 - Thursday
**Today's Progress:**  Finished ch 1 of 5 - Manipulating DataFrames with pandas - DataCamp

**Thoughts:**  Long day.  Sleep now.

**Link(s) to work:**
1. [Finished ch 1 of 5 - Manipulating DataFrames with pandas - DataCamp](https://github.com/BrianLeip/Data-Science-Intensive-Springboard/commit/23e13d652bb33457e902ba8428543928affb2e68)
---

## Day 46 thru 48: February 12 thru 14, 2018 - Monday thru Wednesday
**Today's Progress:**  Progress on ch 1 of 5 - Manipulating DataFrames with pandas - DataCamp.  Mentor call with Nate.  Discussions with Springboard.

**Thoughts:**  Been a hectic few days but still getting some coding in here and there.  Want to get more done over the new 2 days and especially the weekend.

**Link(s) to work:**
1. [Progress on ch 1 of 5 - Manipulating DataFrames with pandas - DataCamp](https://github.com/BrianLeip/Data-Science-Intensive-Springboard/commit/beb24bbf1b71981b8551791f727c7f3d599f9d2c)
2. [Progress on ch 1 of 5 - Manipulating DataFrames with pandas - DataCamp](https://github.com/BrianLeip/Data-Science-Intensive-Springboard/commit/37025fa451e3a9086510024c2fd7cf23ba1ae387)
3. [Progress on ch 1 of 5 - Manipulating DataFrames with pandas - DataCamp](https://github.com/BrianLeip/Data-Science-Intensive-Springboard/commit/23d8f2a5b2a09bd473abb1d7053471c525b3969d)
---

## Day 45: February 11, 2018 - Sunday
**Today's Progress:**  The biggest chunk of work done today was wrapping up the pandas foundations course (early AM), but also put in some code time before bed to start the new course Manipulating DataFrames with pandas

**Thoughts:**  Starting to get in a groove and get things done.  That may change during the work week with other obligations but I'm going to push to keep it moving.

**Link(s) to work:**
1. [Progress on ch 1 of 5 - Manipulating DataFrames with pandas - DataCamp](https://github.com/BrianLeip/Data-Science-Intensive-Springboard/commit/a2118aaf32ab13bdc820abd3b0573614766bcb96)
---

## Day 43 & 44: February 9 & 10, 2018 - Friday & Saturday
**Today's Progress:**   6 hours - Finished all 4 chapters of the pandas Foundations course on DataCamp

**Thoughts:**  I buckled down and put a big chunk of time in to get as much done as I can on this course.  I'm really liking working with data in Python and all the different statistics and visualizations that can be done after you clean up the data and get it into a usable format.  I can really see this coming in handy at work and on personal projects so I'm glad I decided to push my knowledge further by taking this course.

**Link(s) to work:**
1. [Finished ch 1 of 4 - pandas Foundations - DataCamp](https://github.com/BrianLeip/Data-Science-Intensive-Springboard/commit/b484ea9763657dc4fa15324e11df8b55ad8b99b2)
2. [Finished ch 2 of 4 - pandas Foundations - DataCamp](https://github.com/BrianLeip/Data-Science-Intensive-Springboard/commit/ded8b832fbdaac9b84c329b53f0dcfae1a0e25b7)
3. [Finished ch 3 of 4 - pandas Foundations - DataCamp](https://github.com/BrianLeip/Data-Science-Intensive-Springboard/commit/212374c1ede1971345b387722de41ed106bc9734)
4. [Finished ch 4 of 4 - pandas Foundations - DataCamp](https://github.com/BrianLeip/Data-Science-Intensive-Springboard/commit/8c505500358bd3b8acb9dbd0895ca4b42236999c)
5. [Certificate for completing course - pandas Foundations - DataCamp](https://github.com/BrianLeip/Data-Science-Intensive-Springboard/blob/8c505500358bd3b8acb9dbd0895ca4b42236999c/Data%20Camp/06-pandas%20Foundations%20Course%20-%20Certificate%20-%20DataCamp.pdf)
---

## Day 40 to 42: February 6 to 8, 2018 - Tue to Thu
**Today's Progress:**   Finished ch 3 and 4 on the Intro to Data Viz with Python to complete this section and get the certificate

**Thoughts:**  This was a great section I loved it and fit perfectly with my Capstone.  There was some charting of stock prices using time series data and moving averages as well.  I took good notes so that I can come back and reference it in the future if needed.

**Link(s) to work:**
1. [Ch 3 of 4 on DataCamp - Intro to Data Viz with Python](https://github.com/BrianLeip/Data-Science-Intensive-Springboard/commit/148d8523ebd671651b60790ef988f0e4af831ec3)
2. [Ch 3 of 4 on DataCamp - Intro to Data Viz with Python](https://github.com/BrianLeip/Data-Science-Intensive-Springboard/commit/c5b7c5c11bed0e348379bee412ef363f6b1a6754)
3. [Intro to Data Viz with Python - Certificate - DataCamp](http://bit.ly/2EfRohS)
---

## Day 39: February 5, 2018 - Monday
**Today's Progress:**  0.5 hours - Progress on ch 3 of 4 - Intro to Data Viz with Python - DataCamp

**Thoughts:**  It's been a rough couple of days... With the Patiots losing, Cryptocurrencies crashing 65% since January highs and 25% overnight, stock market crashing the most single day drop ever, and work/personal drama to deal with.  I still put in some coding time to make progress and keep the streak going, but I'm making it an early night to get some sleep and be done with today.  Here's hoping for better days to come.

**Link(s) to work:**
1. [Progress on ch 3 of 4 - Intro to Data Viz with Python - DataCamp](https://github.com/BrianLeip/Data-Science-Intensive-Springboard/commit/da9ffc1c612050f7a02d9298826877e6f7bc3f2b)
---

## Day 38: February 4, 2018 - Sunday
**Today's Progress:**  2 hours - Capstone Project proposal writeup and research.  Sent to mentor Nate for review.  

**Thoughts:**  I'm missing the beginning of the SuperBowl but gotta git er done!  Capstone project proposal submitted and now on to watch the game.

**Link(s) to work:**
1. [Capstone Project proposal draft sent to mentor](http://bit.ly/2s5MF0B)
---

## Day 35 to 37: February 1 to 3, 2018 - Thu to Sun
**Today's Progress:**   Made improvements to the springboard dynamic course scheduler so that it calculates how many hours per day / week I will need to put in based on both the course as a whole and (excited about this one) based on the current progress of what's been done and what remains.  In other words, since I found out that I'm a little behind where I should be in the course, the calculations tell me how many hours per day/week to put in so that I still finish by my deadline.  The scheduler also adds calculations for completing 100% of the Capstone and 60% of the curriculum in order to get the certificate.  Separate from the scheduler, I also made progress on the data viz section. 

**Thoughts:**  To be honest, once I created the scheduler and saw that I was 40+ hours behind because I relied on the Springboard scheduler and recommended hours per week (7-14 is much too low), I was very frustrated.  I still made some progress every day, but was upset that the Springboard scheduler misled me and that I had a mountain worth of work ahead of me in less time than before.  I've since pushed past that, and come to terms with the reality of my situation and my goals for the course.  If I put in 2 hours on average every day, I will be able to complete the course by May 9th, 2018.  That's 3 months from now, and will mean that I'll have to pay for an additional month of the Springboard course ($500), possibly another month on top of that if 2 hours a day is not possible.  My schedule is currently too full to take on any more, and I'm going to have to start being more selective with my workload and unload tasks that aren't paying well or aren't worth my time.  My schedule may change in the future and may open up more, but for now, this is the reality that I'm working with and have accepted, and will just keep pushing forward until I reach the finish line.

**Link(s) to work:**
1. [Ch 2 of 4 on DataCamp - Intro to Data Viz with Python](https://github.com/BrianLeip/Data-Science-Intensive-Springboard/commit/24741cd4d66e3d2f3660e3dff31079f375d9e42b)
2. [Changes to Improved Dynamic Course Scheduling Spreadsheet for Springboard Intermediate Data Science Course](https://github.com/BrianLeip/Data-Science-Intensive-Springboard/blob/4c95dd78f538ea2f0b71a2a18c569382f0182183/Springboard%20Course%20Schedule%20%26%20Study%20Plan.xlsx)
---

## Day 34: January 31, 2018 - Wednesday
**Today's Progress:**  2.5 hours -  Did some more Data Viz, but more importantly, I was really needing a clear roadmap for how long the course would take and when each section would be due by.  So I laid out the entire Springboard Intermediate Data Science course in Excel and created a dynamic scheduler to calculate how many hours per week of work is required and when each section should be completed by.  

**Thoughts:**  Good lord, I wish I had created this dynamic scheduler from the beginning! I was relying on the one that Springboard provides which unfortunately turned out to be very bad at calculating which sections need to be completed in which weeks.  If I had stuck with the (7-14 hours per week) guideline, I would finish the course by the end of July (7 months for a 3-4 month course!)  Now that I have an accurate schedule in place, I have a firm grasp on the actual roadmap/deadlines for the course and what I need to do to get to the finish line.  I see now that I am a bit behind on a 3-4 month timeframe and will have to kick things up a few notches.  I plan on sharing the dynamic scheduler with Chris at Springboard in the hopes that he will pass it on and it will help other students as much as it's already helped me.  Maybe share on the Springboard forums as well.

**Link(s) to work:**
1. [Finished Ch 1 of 5 on DataCamp - Intro to Data Viz with Python](https://github.com/BrianLeip/Data-Science-Intensive-Springboard/commit/4d287317759a0042651e0e9129499435e3e0ef06)
2. [Improved Dynamic Course Scheduling Spreadsheet for Springboard Intermediate Data Science Course](https://github.com/BrianLeip/Data-Science-Intensive-Springboard/blob/c6e184a8bdb38ef812bdbe95113783f7f81e2d12/Springboard%20Course%20Schedule%20%26%20Study%20Plan.xlsx)
---

## Day 33: January 30, 2018 - Tuesday
**Today's Progress:**  2 hours - Completed the Sprinboard sections on Jupyter / Anaconda Python, and Git / Github.  Then spent 30 min on a Skype call with my mentor Nate, discussing ideas for my capstone and potential Data Science and Machine learning tools or libraries I can use.  Then did some more work on DataCamp to keep the git log green squares flowing.  

**Thoughts:**  Good day overall, very productive.  Pretty much done with the Python bootcamp section after wrapping up a couple final things.  Next up is to formalize my Capstone project writeup and get mentor sign off, finalize the last of the Data Viz course, and then its on to the Data Wrangling section.  Data Wrangling is the biggest section of the course and is going to take at least a month to complete it.  I'm going to see if I can move from 1 hour a day on average to 2 hours a day on average to keep things moving along even faster.

**Link(s) to work:**
1. [Progress on Ch 1 of 5 on DataCamp - Intro to Data Viz with Python](https://github.com/BrianLeip/Data-Science-Intensive-Springboard/commit/0eb54c078bef92c6ba67e383dd8ddc0889301b60)
---

## Day 32: January 29, 2018 - Monday
**Today's Progress:**  0.5 hours - Progress on the Data Visualization course on DataCamp

**Thoughts:**  Another busy day. Getting frustrated but need to keep moving and make time

**Link(s) to work:**
1. [Progerss on Ch 1 of 5 on DataCamp - Intro to Data Viz with Python](https://github.com/BrianLeip/Data-Science-Intensive-Springboard/commit/e323d399647d5acf2471e60fdd46f3dc2ecddd2a)
---

## Day 31: January 28, 2018 - Sunday
**Today's Progress:**  0.5 hours - Started the Data Visualization course on DataCamp

**Thoughts:**  Spent most of the day getting a buttload of personal things done that had been backlogged for a while.  Spent less time on this than I wanted to but tomorrow is another day.

**Link(s) to work:**
1. [Started Ch 1 of 5 on DataCamp - Intro to Data Viz with Python](https://github.com/BrianLeip/Data-Science-Intensive-Springboard/commit/acefefdc309d2615ef0eccb1273e0f05adf149eb)
---

## Day 30: January 27, 2018 - Saturday
**Today's Progress:**  2+ hours - Ch 5 of 5 on DataCamp - Data Types for Data Science.  In this section we brought all the different pieces together to gather and parse data from a Chicago crimes data list.  All starting to come together.

**Thoughts:**  Glad to be done with that course and excited to get started on the Data Viz course!  That's my jam

**Link(s) to work:**
1. [ch 5 of 5 on DataCamp - Data Types for Data Science](https://github.com/BrianLeip/Data-Science-Intensive-Springboard/commit/8a919ff368c4e0d7b28b69010a0d87f66ad5d9cd)
2. [Certificate - Data Types for Data Science - DataCamp](http://bit.ly/2rM2vgr)
---

## Day 29: January 26, 2018 - Friday
**Today's Progress:**  1.5 hours - ch 4 of 5 on DataCamp - Data Types for Data Science.  Covered datetime objects, converting to string/datetimes, comparing now vs UTC time, and working with timezones.

**Thoughts:**  Making progress but still so much to do and not enough time.  I want to block off a good chunk of Sat & Sun to hammer this stuff out.

**Link(s) to work:**
1. [ch 4 of 5 on DataCamp - Data Types for Data Science](https://github.com/BrianLeip/Data-Science-Intensive-Springboard/commit/9592542c46393533904576c13b342f3e0e5217ab)
---

## Day 28: January 25, 2018 - Thursday
**Today's Progress:**  1.5 hours - ch 3 of 5 on DataCamp - Data Types for Data Science.  Covered the collections module with Counter, DefaultDict, OrderedDict, etc.

**Thoughts:**  The examples in this section of DataCamp aren't very good but to make it into a positive I need to do more troubleshooting to get the code to work which always leads to learning.  

**Link(s) to work:**
1. [ch 3 of 5 on DataCamp - Data Types for Data Science](https://github.com/BrianLeip/Data-Science-Intensive-Springboard/commit/98387976da574510e16bc481c8ccc5007c315b78)
---

## Day 24 thru 27: January 21 thru 24, 2018 - Sunday thru Wednesday
**Today's Progress:**  Finished ch 2 of 5 on DataCamp - Data Types for Data Science.  Did a little each day, the most on Wednesday.  Covered in depth usage of Dictionaries and accessing data, and reading dictionaries from csv files.

**Thoughts:**  This was a rough chapter with poor instructions and overly complex exercises.  I even went through one of them with my mentor (PHD, full time Data Scientist using Python) and he was as frustrated with it as I was.  That being said, it started to dabble in CSV imports and exports which I'm interested in so pushing through.

**Link(s) to work:**
1. [Finished ch 2 of 5 on DataCamp - Data Types for Data Science](https://github.com/BrianLeip/Data-Science-Intensive-Springboard/commit/8f680c3cf74a94297452898c024b25437995753e)
---

## Day 23: January 20, 2018 - Saturday
**Today's Progress:**  1 hour - Progress on chapter 2 of 5 of the DataCamp - Data Types for Data Science.  Working with lists, tuples and dictionaries.  Also tried out DataCamps Daily Practice exercises.  

**Thoughts:**  I really like the DataCamp Daily Practice exercises, they're a great way to solidify and reinforce what's been learned before.  I'll probably start doing half daily practice and half new material because if I just rush forward without practicing what was learned then nothing will stick.

**Link(s) to work:**
1. [Progress on ch 2 of 5 on DataCamp - Data Types for Data Science](https://github.com/BrianLeip/Data-Science-Intensive-Springboard/commit/eadf7bc1142638b559d09b4fe839862c224d1c5f)
---

## Day 21 & 22: January 18 & 19, 2018 - Thursday & Friday
**Today's Progress:**  1 hour each - Completed chapter 1 of 5 of the DataCamp - Data Types for Data Science course.  Covered working with Lists, Tuples, and Set unions/differences.

**Thoughts:**  Worked 12+ hour days both Thu and Fri but made sure to get some coding time in.  Hope to have more time this weekend

**Link(s) to work:**
1. [Chapter 1 of 5 of the DataCamp - Data Types for Data Science course](https://github.com/BrianLeip/Data-Science-Intensive-Springboard/commit/2530d47ee4a2086002902bbcf24379def0ed94c7)
---

## Day 20: January 17, 2018 - Wednesday
**Today's Progress:**  1 hour - Completed chapter 3 of 3 of the DataCamp - Python Data Science Toolbox (Part 1).  Covered lambda functions (inline functions) and error handling

**Thoughts:**  Keep on moving.  A little bit further every day.

**Link(s) to work:**
1. [Completed Chapter 3 of 3 in Python Data Science Toolbox (Part 1)](https://github.com/BrianLeip/Data-Science-Intensive-Springboard/commit/edda34c77d4e691423b7fbffe308b3e8e9282d6e)
2. [Certificate - Python Data Science Toolbox (Part 1) - DataCamp](http://bit.ly/2Gm5BLk)
---

## Day 19: January 16, 2018 - Tuesday
**Today's Progress:**  1 hour - Completed chapter 2 of 3 of the DataCamp - Python Data Science Toolbox (Part 1).  Covered functions with default arguments and flexible arguments *args and **kwargs

**Thoughts:**  Had an event scheduled tonight after work but still managed to get 1 hour of code in.  Moving forward.

**Link(s) to work:**
1. [Completed Chapter 2 of 3 in Python Data Science Toolbox (Part 1)](https://github.com/BrianLeip/Data-Science-Intensive-Springboard/commit/bc15bc5ff2b3557f09a7dba6f9441ce795d04246)
---

## Day 17 & 18: January 14 & 15, 2018 - Sunday & Monday
**Today's Progress:**  1 hour each - Made progress on Python Data Science Toolbox (Part 1).  Covered functions with single return values, multiple return values, tuples, and scope with global and nonlocal keywords.

**Thoughts:**  Making progress.  Keep moving forward.

**Link(s) to work:**
1. [Python Functions](https://github.com/BrianLeip/Data-Science-Intensive-Springboard/commit/a0aa7df3d7c7798cdd7895b910a288f15c1f805f)
2. [Finished Python Data Science Toolbox (Part 1) - Chapter 1 - Functions](https://github.com/BrianLeip/Data-Science-Intensive-Springboard/commit/9a18fa5745db790e6a740dff937fa2a613f5178b)
---

## Day 16: January 13, 2018 - Saturday
**Today's Progress:**  3.75 hours - Completed all 5 chapters of the Intermediate Python for Data Science course on DataCamp

**Thoughts:**  I spent a lot more time than normal on this but I wanted to push to get some solid progress on the course.  There's still so much left to do in the course and this is just the tip of the iceberg.  I'm loving python so far, especially the data viz with matplotlib.  I can use a lot of these skills for work in accounting/finance, tracking my own portfolios, running simulations, etc.  Excited to learn more!

**Link(s) to work:**
1. [Completed 4 of 5 sections of Intermediate Python for Data Science on DataCamp](https://github.com/BrianLeip/Data-Science-Intensive-Springboard/commit/ac504a09b6485257508a98d389e23e4f458ea7da)
2. [Completed 5 of 5 sections of Intermediate Python for Data Science on DataCamp, got certificate](https://github.com/BrianLeip/Data-Science-Intensive-Springboard/commit/780201e5ac1945d01d55bdf2149558771fedec1c)
3. [Certificate - Intermediate Python for Data Science - DataCamp](http://bit.ly/2niDfd4)
---

## Day 15: January 12, 2018 - Friday
**Today's Progress:**  1 hr - Intermediate Python for Data Science (DataCamp) - Pandas and DataFrames, improved Jupyter and Github workflows

**Thoughts:**  Today felt like I finally got a good workflow/routine down for DataCamp, combined with live Python coding in Jupyter, combined with 100DaysOfCode tracking on Github.  Do an example on DataCamp, then create a Python Jupyter Notebook for each example and copy/paste/save it.  That will allow me to come back and reference examples in the future if I need to and also keep Github tracking moving.  I also figured out how to run Jupyter from terminal without having to use the shitty Anaconda Dashboard.  Open terminal, go to the folder that you want to work in, then type Jupyter Notebook and it will start Jupyter in a browser using the current folder you're in.  That's a time saver because the Anaconda Dashboard would never remember previous directories and I'd waste time navigating back every time I open or save a file.  Making progress every day, looking forward to more tomorrow.

**Link(s) to work:**
1. [Multiple Jupyter notebooks completed](https://github.com/BrianLeip/Data-Science-Intensive-Springboard/commit/e41ccd7ce6ada04f7a78e8b3dce87fd666c95fdc)
---

## Day 14: January 11, 2018 - Thursday
**Today's Progress:**  1 hr - Intermediate Python for Data Science (DataCamp)

**Thoughts:**  Busiest day yet but making 1 hour of code happen anyways.  The worst is behind me, will have more time over the weekend

**Link(s) to work:**
1. [Dictionary test in Jupyter Python](https://github.com/BrianLeip/Data-Science-Intensive-Springboard/blob/master/Ch%202/Dictionary%2Btest.py)
---

## Day 13: January 10, 2018 - Wednesday
**Today's Progress:**  1 hr - Quick one today.  Installed Anaconda Python package on my macbook pro, tested out a few python scripts using Jupyter and matplotlib

**Thoughts:**  Doing the DataCamp exercises is a great way to learn but since everything is in their safe, sanitized environment, it feels disconnected from coding in a "real" Python environment.  To fix that, I installed the Anaconda Python install that includes a bunch of Data Science related packages like Numpy and Matplotlib.  Tested it out, got it working, and ready to roll.

**Link(s) to work:**
1. [Anaconda Python - Jupyter and Matplotlib test script](https://github.com/BrianLeip/Data-Science-Intensive-Springboard/blob/e5b661c3b92ffa77fb115015690e5eda8b55cbce/Ch%202/Jupyter%20and%20Matplotlib%20test.py)
---

## Day 12: January 9, 2018 - Tuesday
**Today's Progress:**  1.5 hrs - Intermediate Python for Data Science (DataCamp), weekly call with Mentor

**Thoughts:**  Still super busy but made time for my 30 min call with my Data Science mentor and 1 hour on the intermediate python course on DataCamp.  This section is on graphically plotting data with matplotlib and I'm loving it.

**Link(s) to work:**
1. N/A
---

## Day 10 & 11: January 8, 2018 - Sunday & Monday
**Today's Progress:**  Spend the last 2 days making progress on the Python boot camp.  Finished the Intro to Python section, more to go

**Thoughts:**  This is going to be a crazy week with multiple deadlines at work and with clients, and taking care of my puppy that's been sick and still not house trained.  Still going to push myself to get at least 1 hr of Python coding in each day.  Who needs sleep, right?

**Link(s) to work:**
1. [Intro to Python Cert](http://bit.ly/2FlcA6c)
---

## Day 9: January 6, 2018 - Saturday
**Today's Progress:**  1 hr - Intro to Python for Data Science (DataCamp)

**Thoughts:**  Spent most of the day doing a major cleaning and reorg of my home, but made sure to get 1 hour of coding in.  Python boot camp on DataCamp.  I'm a hands on learner so this is right up my alley: watching a video then doing 5-10 examples with actual code.  Good stuff going to do more tomorrow.

**Link(s) to work:**
1. N/A
---

## Day 8: January 5, 2018 - Friday
**Today's Progress:**  2 hrs - Research and write up the 3 Capstone project ideas for Data Science Intensive course.  

**Thoughts:**  I love all 3 ideas and would like to be able to do them all at some point in my life when time permits.  The one that probably has the most immediate use to me and could also turn into a service / startup idea for is idea #1 - CryptoCurrency price analysis.  I put out the idea to my mentor, the Springboard community, and will also post on Twitter to get some feedback.

**Link(s) to work:**
1. [Capstone - 3 project ideas](https://github.com/BrianLeip/Data-Science-Intensive-Springboard/blob/master/Capstone%20Project/Ideas%20for%20Capstone%20Project.md) 
---

## Day 7: January 4, 2018 - Thursday
**Today's Progress:**  1 hr - Read the Capstone project guidelines for Data Science Intensive course.  Brainstormed on some ideas for the project.  

**Thoughts:**  Since the Capstone project is where I'll spend the majority of my time in this course, I want to pick a project that combines my current passions and interests.  Currenly that revolves around Bitcoin/Blockchain/CryptoCurrencies, and also AI and Machine Learning.  I'll publish my ideas tomorrow once they're more fleshed out.

**Link(s) to work:**
1. [Capstone project guidelines](https://github.com/BrianLeip/Data-Science-Intensive-Springboard/blob/27ae12885e98b4f3503ba660ea41e62bc4ce9935/CH%202/Capstone%20Project%20Guidelines.pdf) 
---

## Day 6: January 3, 2018 - Wednesday
**Today's Progress:**  2 hours - Completed section 2.1 of Data Science Intensive course.  Also spent some time getting familiar with 2 Blockchain Cryptocurrency wallets: Daedalus for Cardano/ADA, and IOTA wallet.

**Thoughts:**  Most of my day was tied up with both my main job and finishing up a contractor project, but I pushed to make sure I got 1 hour of code in too.

**Link(s) to work:**
1. [Section 2.1](https://github.com/BrianLeip/Data-Science-Intensive-Springboard/tree/master/Ch%202) 
---

## Day 5: January 2, 2018 - Tuesday
**Today's Progress:**  1 hour - Introductory call with my Springboard Mentor - Nate Kugland, Data Scientist at AirBnB.  Also reviewed the full course material and manually added everythig in to Asana so I can schedule and track my progress along the way.

**Thoughts:**  Nate seems like a good guy and look forward to working with him and leaning on him when I have any questions.  After reviewing the course schedule I can see that it's going to be a lot of work and I'll have to make some sacrifices to keep moving forward.  Going to get started in on it tomorrow.

**Link(s) to work:**
1. [Screenshot of Data Science Intensive schedule in Asana](https://github.com/BrianLeip/Data-Science-Intensive-Springboard/commit/16c7e2a7bd762835d9565f03fd8924058126ba58) 
---

## Day 4: January 1, 2018 - Monday
**Today's Progress:**  1.5 hours - Continued configuring bitcoin core bitcoin.conf file for bitcoind daemon.  Ch 3 of Mastering Bitcoin book

**Thoughts:**  A lot of issues cropped up in what should have been pretty straightforward.  The current version of bitcoind has an error where you can't customize the Bitcoin Blockchain drive location; it throws an error and crashes.  I had to troubleshoot that, delete the previously downloaded Blockchain from bitcoin-qt that took a few days to download, then start fresh.  
bitcoind -printtoconsole -reindex

**Link(s) to work:**
1. N/A  
---

## Day 3: December 30, 2017 - Saturday
**Today's Progress:**  1.5 hours - Joined up with Devslopes Coffee & Code live coding session - Intro to Solidity Development on the Ethereum Blockchain

**Thoughts:**  This was a good overview and led me to realize that I'll need to have a stronger understanding of Javascript, Html and CSS before Blockchain programming in Solidity.  I have a couple great books for that ("A Smarter Way to Learn..." series) and the Devslopes Web slope as well.  Will I actually have the time to learn all this while taking the Data Science Intensive course, working full time, doing PT accounting work, etc?  Need to give it some thought and focus on only 1-3 big things at a time so I don't get stretched too thin.

**Link(s) to work:**
1. N/A
---

## Day 2: December 29, 2017 - Friday
**Today's Progress:**  Configure, compile and install Bitcoin core Node on Linux Ubuntu:
1) Fixed the Ubuntu VM Ethernet issue (took 2 hours! Note - it was related to a NAS firmware update and change in the virtual networking switch)
2) Installed VS Code on Ubuntu VM
3) Completed the Chapter 3 section: Compiling Bitcoin Core from the Source Code.  Configured and installed Bitcoin Core by combining info from Mastering Bitcoin book, and searching the web for missing info to fill in the gaps (e.g. installing the correct Berkeley DB)

**Thoughts:**  Altogether I spent a solid 4.5 hours working on this today.  According to the Author of Mastering Bitcoin, this is the most technical and complicated chapter of the book and tells some people to skip it.  But I'm up for the challenge and it's something I'd like to learn so I'm gettin it done.

**Link(s) to work:**
1. N/A
---

## Day 1: December 28, 2017 - Thursday
**Today's Progress:**  Read Data Science Intensive "Getting Started" section on springboard.com.  Set up git repository for DS Intensive course.  Update git and log to restart 100 days of code.

**Thoughts:**  I'm excited to start up 100 days of code again!  My main focus over the next 100 days will be the Springboard Data Science Intensive course which starts on 1/2/2018, but I'm also very interested in learning more about Bitcoin (Mastering Bitcoin book) and Ethereum blockchain development using Solidity.  It will be difficult doing all this while also maintaining a full time job, handling accounting for multiple side clients, and also regular home/friend/family/gf duties, but I'm up for the challenge and I'm starting today.

**Link(s) to work:**
1. [Data Science Intensive Git Repo](https://github.com/BrianLeip/Data-Science-Intensive-Springboard)
